Welcome to the January 2022 edition
of JW Broadcasting®!
The 137th annual meeting
of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
of Pennsylvania
was held on October 2, 2021.
How joyful it was to be together in person
in the Warwick auditorium for this event!
The Bethel family members in attendance
enjoyed a wonderful lineup
of spiritual talks,
exciting updates, and videos.
Now we’re delighted to be able to share
the entire program with you
here on JW Broadcasting.
The Governing Body assigned me
to be the chairman for the annual meeting
and to anchor
the January and February JW Broadcasts.
This month,
we’ll see the first part of the program,
and Part 2 will be featured
in next month’s broadcast.
So please enjoy the first half
of the 2021 annual meeting.
Do you know what time it is?
Most of us are conscious of time every day.
We have a time to go to work,
a time to go to school, a time to eat,
a time for our Christian meetings,
and even a time for association
with our dear friends.
As the Great Timekeeper,
Jehovah reminds us at Ecclesiastes 3:1
that there is a proper “time for everything.”
And thus, it’s not surprising
that the Bible speaks
of the right time for various events.
For example, at Leviticus 26:4,
Jehovah promised the obedient Israelites
that he would bless them
with “showers of rain at [the] proper time.”
Well, that’s just a detail, probably,
for most of us.
But if you’ve ever lived
in a farming community
or you’ve done farming yourself,
you know that rain at the right time
can give you a bumper crop,
but rain at the wrong time
can completely destroy that same crop.
Even words can be spoken at the right time.
Proverbs 15:23 says:
“A word spoken at the right time
—how good it is!”
Truly, it is a fundamental principle
that timing is everything.
Well, think for a moment
about prophesied events
that took place right on time.
Jesus was baptized at precisely the time
when the Messiah was prophesied to appear.
The Kingdom began its heavenly rule
right on time in 1914.
And looking to the future, Jesus said
that Jehovah has set the time,
even the exact day and the hour,
for the end of this wicked system of things.
Does the Governing Body know
when Armageddon is going to come?
Yes, we do.
It’s going to come right on time.
We have full confidence in that
—don’t we?—
that Jehovah is going to bring about
those earth-shaking events
exactly on time.
But there is something else
that Jehovah has promised
to provide at the proper time.
Would you go to your Bibles?
Let’s look at Matthew chapter 24
and verse 45.
Now, here Jesus posed this question:
“Who really is
the faithful and discreet slave
“whom his master appointed
over his domestics,
“to give them their food
“at the proper time?
“Happy is that slave if his master
“on coming finds him doing so!
“Truly I say to you, he will appoint him
over all his belongings.”
Well, what did Jesus say here?
He said that he would appoint
a “faithful and discreet slave”
who would provide the spiritual food.
But there is another important detail there
—did you notice it?
He added “at the proper time.”
Well, because of Jehovah’s
perfect sense of time,
he knows exactly what his people need
and he knows exactly the right time
to provide it.
Now, just consider
a couple of examples of this.
Just as World War II was erupting,
the November 1, 1939, issue of The Watchtower
featured an in-depth discussion
of the topic of neutrality.
That timing was absolutely perfect.
Because of those articles,
our brothers worldwide
knew exactly what to do
as the war engulfed the entire planet.
Well, after the war
as the organization was rapidly growing,
Jehovah’s organization arranged
large international conventions
that were held in New York City.
In 1958, a quarter of a million people
—can you imagine?—
overflowed Yankee Stadium
and the Polo Grounds.
Were any of you there?
Well, it’s so wonderful that we still have
a few people who were there.
It’s not that I wasn’t
in the truth at that time;
it’s just that I wasn’t
in the world at that time.
Well, that amazing convention
came just on time.
It energized God’s people
and, we could say,
it put Jehovah’s Witnesses on the map.
It was hard to ignore a convention
of a quarter of a million people.
Well, fast forward to 2020
at a time when the world was engulfed
in a global pandemic.
Large gatherings were prohibited
in most countries.
Could we go to Yankee Stadium and have
250,000 people there?
No.
But right on time,
Jehovah guided
“the faithful and discreet slave”
so that our worldwide brotherhood
could enjoy the convention program from home
—truly, spiritual “food
at the proper time.”
And during the pandemic, we’ve had
to change our methods, haven’t we?
We’ve had to receive direction
about how to carry out our preaching work
and how to carry out
our congregation meetings.
But throughout this period, we have received
powerful, powerful evidence
that Jehovah has given this direction to us
at the proper time.
Now, let me just give you
a couple of examples.
During the 2021 service year,
at least 22 branches
have reported an all-time peak
in the number of publishers.
Can you imagine—during the pandemic?
For example, the Korea branch
has reported a new peak in publishers
every month during the 2021 service year.
Isn’t that amazing—during a pandemic?
And with so many wonderful things
happening in the field,
I’m sure that you’re all wondering
about our worldwide Memorial attendance
for 2021.
Well, by the undeserved kindness
of our amazing God, Jehovah,
we have reached an all-time peak,
crossing the 21 million mark.
Would you like to know the exact figure?
Well, “keep on the watch”!
It’ll be announced today at the proper time.
Well, today in our program,
we are going to have a wonderful buffet
of rich spiritual food
of many varieties and types.
And by the end of the program,
I’m sure that you’ll agree
that it was just what we needed
at this moment in time.
Well, last year at the 2020 annual meeting,
the Governing Body was excited to release
a new publication to study
with interested ones entitled
Enjoy Life Forever!
—An Interactive Bible Course.
It introduced a new and innovative way
to study the Bible with interested ones.
How has the publication
been received by Jehovah’s people?
And maybe more to the point,
How is this new format touching the hearts
of those studying the Bible with us?
Please enjoy this video.
How thrilled we were
at last year’s annual meeting
to receive a new publication:
Enjoy Life Forever!
—An Interactive Bible Course !
Already many publishers are having success
in conducting progressive studies
using this new tool.
As you listen to experiences
from around the world,
note the evidence of Jehovah’s blessing.
When they made the announcement
of the new publication,
for me it was just pure excitement.
Actually, I was so overjoyed
that I kept going to the website
around the time of the release,
and at times I would even refresh my browser
a few times a day to see when it was out.
Having all the teaching methods
right in our hands
—what more can we ask for?
We were so excited that during this pandemic,
Jehovah has given us something
to energize our ministry.
When you heard that we would be using
a new method for conducting studies,
were you a bit hesitant?
Pay close attention
to what experienced teachers are saying
about the benefits of this approach.
Before, it wasn’t uncommon
to hear students start their comments
with expressions like “the paragraph says”
or “as the book mentions.”
Now it’s not like that.
In the old way of teaching,
it was a bit difficult for me to discern
if my Bible students really understood
what they were learning
or if the truth reached their hearts.
I think I was using
too many additional points
to convey one idea
and just explaining too much,
so my Bible students
would get even more confused.
With some well-educated people,
the studies were in a sense
too easy for them.
They found the answer very easily
from the paragraph
and were able to answer correctly,
but it was very hard to know
what they really thought about the matter.
With this new book,
it seems like it is easier to see
the person’s genuine thoughts on the matter.
In the previous method,
you would see the student
looking at the book a lot,
but that doesn’t happen now.
When you look at the student,
you can tell he is thinking about the answer
instead of looking for the answer.
They used to enjoy
the Bible study in the past,
but now they enjoy it much more.
Now they are able to keep focused
from the beginning to the end of our session.
They feel motivated and closer to Jehovah.
To reach the heart of a Bible student,
we need to understand
what he’s thinking and feeling.
How does the Enjoy Life Forever!  book
help us to do that?
One of the things I love about it
is how after we read the Bible verse,
there are the questions that follow it
that are perfectly phrased for us.
It really engages our students’ hearts,
and it helps them to understand
the Bible teachings right away,
and it helps us to see
what’s in their heart as well.
It lets the student express
what is in his heart,
which allows us to help him.
The first time I looked
through this publication,
I could already see
how appealing its format is.
There are no lengthy paragraphs,
and it is prepared in a very interactive way.
With this new method, I definitely talk less.
My students talk more.
And the one that starts it all off
—the introduction video—
just makes everything fit together.
And one of the amazing things
that it introduces right away is the prayer,
because often as a teacher,
we didn’t know exactly
when to introduce prayer or how to do it,
but the video does it for us.
Obviously, teachers are excited
about the new book.
But what impact
is it having on their students?
Bible students
have been pleasantly surprised.
I asked one student how he felt
to be using this new publication.
And the response was:
“Why didn’t we do this sooner?
It’s great!
I’m a lot calmer.”
Another student
told me that she was relieved
to no longer have to find the answers
but, rather, to express
her thoughts and feelings.
During our discussion
of the “Dig Deeper” section in lesson 02,
my Bible student really appreciated
the scriptures and the beautiful artwork.
He said that he
could already see himself in Paradise
enjoying the many promises of Jehovah.
He said that our discussion
made him feel Jehovah’s love.
With the students,
they’re not so overwhelmed with the new book
when we ask them to prepare the lesson.
With the Bible Teach  book,
when we would ask them
to prepare these paragraphs,
it was like you asked them
to go to the dentist.
They just seemed so intimidated by it.
But now they smile, and they’re like,
“OK, I can do that.”
One student in particular
wrote in the “Goal” box:
“I want to share the points
“from this lesson
with my friends and work colleagues
within a week.”
And he did.
One of the videos that was really effective
was the one from lesson 04,
My Search for the True God.
It shows the experience
of Sister Soten Yoeun.
My students were deeply moved.
They really felt Jehovah’s love for them
and wanted to speak with him.
They felt motivated to pray.
We were studying the first lesson
with an 83-year-old lady
when we came across Matthew 7:7.
She read it in her own Bible,
and at first she didn’t quite understand it.
Then we pondered over the verse
together with the question.
And then all of a sudden she asked:
“Oh! Does this verse mean
“that I should dig
for the answers in the Bible myself
instead of asking a priest?”
It was quite a special moment.
The video
under “Learn to enjoy Bible reading”
was very helpful for one young man.
After watching it,
he set the goal
of reading the Bible every day.
With one Bible student,
we had encouraged him
to become an unbaptized publisher
in the previous study book.
And now when we were in lesson 02
of our new study publication,
he expressed the desire
to become an unbaptized publisher
because he felt he could share
one or two points from each lesson
with his friends and others that he knew.
And so now he is approved,
and he’s doing very well in the ministry.
Thanks to this new book,
I now conduct 15 Bible studies.
The book helps them to maintain
the desire and motivation
to keep learning about Jehovah,
his beautiful qualities,
and the future that awaits us.
Clearly,
our worldwide brotherhood is excited
to use Enjoy Life Forever!
What a tremendous gift from Jehovah!
Of all the facets of our ministry,
without question
conducting a progressive Bible study
is the most satisfying aspect.
And now we have the tool
and the method to make it much easier.
I’m very grateful for this tool.
It really helps us to sense
how close the Governing Body
recognizes we are to the end,
but it in no way feels like a rushed program.
The heart is definitely
being reached gently and lovingly,
but then that is what motivates quickly.
Try and introduce it as much as you can.
Start those Bible studies.
And when you do,
please invite me
to join in on your new Bible study.
The new book Enjoy Life Forever!
shows clearly
that “the faithful and discreet slave”
has been, is, and will continue to give
exactly what we need
at exactly the right time.
This publication has the potential
to help many more honesthearted ones
come to know and love
our wonderful Father, Jehovah.
May he bless you and your Bible students
as you put to use this new tool.
Well, that was very, very encouraging,
and we apologize to all those
who work in the dental office.
We do appreciate your hard work.
Well, no doubt many of you
are experiencing similar blessings
as you are conducting Bible studies
in this wonderful new tool.
If you are not presently conducting
a Bible study,
why not make it a matter
of earnest prayer to Jehovah?
Because there is no experience
quite like having a Bible study
in this wonderful new publication.
Well, for the past several years,
a unique feature
of our annual meeting program
has been a new so-called epic edition
of the Become Jehovah’s Friend  series.
We call it an epic because it is longer
than the usual episodes.
We are now pleased to present
Become Jehovah’s Friend
—Does Jehovah Answer Prayers?
Hey, Sophia, we know you’re in there.
Please, Jehovah, make it stop!
Heh, heh, heh.
What a loser!
Loser.
Let’s go.
Yeah, let’s get out of here.
All right, class,
today we’re going to discuss—
Sophia? You’re late.
I’m sorry. Uh, I was—
Never mind.
We’ll talk about this later.
Oooooooooo.
OK, OK. That’s enough.
Sophia, take your seat.
Today, we’re going to discuss the difference
between division and long division.
OK, class.
Here are the results from yesterday’s test.
Good work, Sophia.
Hey, Angela.
What did you get?
I don’t care.
Whoa!
D plus?
Well, at least there’s a plus.
Whatever.
What are you looking at?
Uh, hehe.
Sophia.
Uhhh!
Oops! I didn’t see you there.
It’s like you’re invisible.
Oh, what’s this?
No!
See you tomorrow.
Loser.
Are you OK?
Let me help.
Sometimes they pick on me too.
It was amazing!
And then Ms. Wilson said I could hold the bunny,
but I had to be very gentle.
Really?
I named him Fred.
But I didn’t get to hold him for very long.
I’m pretty much a bunny expert now.
Oh! Is everything all right, Honey?
Um . . .
See you tomorrow.
I’m fine.
OK.
Let’s talk about something very important:
prayer.
Caleb,
what are some things that you can pray for?
Well, I can pray for things
that make me happy
like a helicopter
or a mountain of ice cream
—uh, without the bellyache—
and Fred!
I see.
But tell me: When we pray before bedtime,
what do we pray for?
We thank Jehovah for the good things he made
like, like, animals,
the stars, and the ocean
and God’s Kingdom
and to help our brothers and sisters!
That’s right!
You can pray for your brothers and sisters.
And remember,
they are praying for you too.
We know that when we pray for the right things,
Jehovah hears us!
Then why doesn’t he answer my  prayers?
Oh! What’s wrong, Sophia?
You can tell us.
There’s a girl at school.
She’s so mean to me.
Oh, no!
Oh, Honey, it’s OK.
I prayed for it to stop,
but nothing’s happened.
Is Jehovah mad at me?
No, my dear.
Jehovah isn’t mad at you.
Maybe Jehovah can’t see me!
No!
There is someone in the Bible
who felt the same way you do.
Her name was Hannah.
Hannah loved Jehovah very much.
Hey, wait for me!
But someone named Peninnah
was very mean to her.
It’s so nice to see the children play,
isn’t it?
She had a bully too?
Yes.
We’re ready to eat.
Here’s your portion, Hannah.
And Peninnah, here’s yours.
She was very jealous of Hannah.
Ah, I’ll get some water.
You think you’re so special, Hannah?
Then why hasn’t Jehovah given you
any children?
Are you OK, Hannah?
Why are you so sad?
Others could not understand
why Hannah was so upset
because the pain was in her heart.
So she talked to the One
who would  understand.
O Jehovah, please, see me.
Remember me.
And do not forget me.
Please give me a child.
If you do,
I will give him to you all his life
to serve you.
What are you doing?
Why are you drunk?
I’m not drunk.
I’m under great stress.
Oh.
I’ve been praying for Jehovah to help me.
Go in peace,
and may Jehovah give you
what you’ve asked for.
Do you know why Hannah felt better
even though her prayer wasn’t answered yet?
Why?
Because Hannah knew Jehovah heard her prayer.
When Jehovah listens to your prayers,
he really listens.
And he knows just what we need
even better than we do.
But how does he answer them?
In lots of different ways.
Sometimes, we just have to wait and see.
Because he’s busy?
No.
Because it can be hard for us
to see the answer.
Let’s talk about what you can pray for . . .
. . . and what you can do tomorrow at school
to work along with those prayers.
I know that Angela and the other girls
are going to be mean to me.
But please help me
to be like Hannah tomorrow.
Help me to be strong like her.
And then she went to the tabernacle,
and Eli was there.
He was the high priest.
Oh, no!
It’s them! Run!
Look who it is.
Look over there. It’s them!
What do you think she did?
What did she say?
Is there about to be a fight?
Angela would win.
What do you want, Angela?
Oh, I was just wondering
if you had a pen that I can borrow.
Agh!
What do I do?
Jehovah heard her prayer.
Jehovah, it’s me, Caleb.
Please help Sophia.
And please
help Sophia be strong at school today.
Watch over the children in our congregation
like Caleb and Sophia.
Please watch over our children.
Help our children make you proud, Jehovah.
Please, Jehovah, give our children
the strength they need to face pressures.
Jehovah, please!
I need your help!
We ask you this prayer in Jesus’ name.
Amen!
Amen.
What? Are you gonna cry?
Stop, Angela.
You’re being mean.
And if you keep being mean,
I’m going to tell.
No, you won’t.
Yes, I will.
You can’t tell me what to do.
Let’s go, Zoe.
That’s my sister!
You’re so brave.
How did you do that?
I prayed for courage, and Jehovah helped me.
Hannah gave birth to a son
and named him Samuel
because as she said, . . .
It is from Jehovah that I have asked him.
There is no one holy like Jehovah.
There is no one but you.
Thank you, Jehovah.
Well, that was
truly spiritual “food at the proper time.”
And while it will touch the hearts
of all of our young ones,
I think that message is something
we all need to hear
and take to heart at this time.
Well, now we have the privilege
to hear three Scriptural talks
by members of the Governing Body.
We’ll first enjoy a talk
by our dear Brother David Splane entitled
“The Way of Holiness.”
Incredible!
That’s the only way to describe it.
The word had gone out that the Jews
who had been captives
in Babylon were free to leave
and to return to their homeland, Israel.
Now, you all know why that was incredible:
because Babylon never released its captives.
But Babylon had been overthrown,
and the new administration had said
that the Jews were free to go.
Only Jehovah could have been
responsible for that.
So every family head had a decision to make:
to leave Babylon or to stay behind.
Now, you might say:
“There was no decision to make at all.
That’s not a hard decision.”
But wait.
Hold it.
Most of the Jews had been born in Babylon.
And most of their parents
had been born in Babylon.
It was the only home they knew.
Their roots were there.
And according to certain records,
some of them had gotten prosperous.
Some of them had gotten wealthy.
There are records of Jews
buying and selling precious gems
and other luxury items.
So one says: “I can’t leave Babylon.
“My business partner is a Babylonian,
“and the business is doing really well,
and there would be no market
for the products we sell in Israel.”
Another would say:
“My son married a Babylonian woman,
“and they just had a baby,
“our first grandchild.
“He’s so cute.
I can’t leave now.”
So on the one hand,
you have these material benefits
from remaining in Babylon.
But on the other hand,
the ability of the Jews
to worship Jehovah freely
was severely limited.
It’s said that there were 50 pagan temples
in the capital alone.
But there was no temple of Jehovah there.
And the Levites weren’t able to follow
the Law of Moses properly.
They could only do so to a limited degree.
So you had material advantages to staying,
but the spiritual blessings
that awaited those who chose to leave
were going to be immense.
And for spiritually-minded Jews,
it was no contest
because they wanted to leave Babylon
and reestablish pure worship
in the Promised Land in Israel.
And so if they were physically able to do so,
they would leave Babylon
and travel to Jerusalem,
a city most of them had never seen,
a city in ruins.
But Jehovah promised to make
the trip from Babylon to Jerusalem
as easy as possible.
And to confirm that
and to get a little picture in our minds,
we’re going to read a series
of four different scriptures.
And each scripture is going to add
a little detail to what Jehovah had in mind.
So the first one
is found at Isaiah chapter 40,
verses 3 and 4.
And I’ll wait a moment because it’d be good
if we could read this together.
This is Isaiah chapter 40,
the well-known words of verses 3, 4:
“A voice of one
calling out in the wilderness:
“‘Clear up the way of Jehovah!
“‘Make a straight highway through the desert
“‘[a straight highway through the desert]
for our God.
“‘Let every valley be raised up,
“‘and every mountain and hill be made low.
“‘The rough ground must become level,
and the rugged ground, a valley plain.’”
You know, every time I read these words,
I think of Brother Carey Barber.
He must have loved this passage
because very often in his prayers
he would quote this passage word for word
—good memories of Brother Barber.
But now, it talks about making
“a straight highway through the desert.”
If some of you have gone
to the Ramapo project,
you know what site work is all about.
How would you like to have
the Construction Committee in Ramapo
take that job on?
“Make a straight highway through the desert.
“When you come to a mountain,
you’ve got to level it.
When you come to a valley,
you’ve got to bring it up.”
That would be quite a job.
I think they have enough on their plate.
They don’t need to worry
about this kind of site work.
But this was going to be a big job.
But in the end, it would be a lot easier
to travel on a straight highway
than to go up and down
a mountain or down a valley.
And it would be a lot faster too.
So we know that there
was going to be a straight highway
between Babylon and Jerusalem.
What else can we learn?
Isaiah 57,
Isaiah 57:14
—verse 14 says: “It will be said:
“‘Build up, build up a road!
“‘Prepare the way!
“‘[and here it comes]
Remove any obstacle
from the way of my people.’”
So now we have two details:
It’s  going to be a straight highway
through the desert,
and all of the obstacles
are going to be cleared away.
But now, most highways have a name.
Some of them are named after famous people;
others have a number.
Does this special highway have a name?
It does.
And we go to Isaiah 35:8, 9
to find that name.
I’m giving you a real workout this morning,
but we have to do this
to put it all together.
Isaiah 35:8, 9:
“And a highway will be there, yes,
“a way called [here it comes]
“the Way of Holiness.
“The unclean one will not travel on it.
“It is reserved for the one
walking on the way;
“no one foolish will stray onto it.
“No lion will be there,
“and no vicious wild beasts will come on it.
“They will not be found there.
Only the repurchased ones will walk there.”
So, what’s the name?
What’s the special name of this highway?
“The Way of Holiness.”
Isn’t that a nice name for a highway?
Rattlesnakes, bears,
foxes, and cougars are not allowed.
I don’t care how cute you think they are.
They’re not allowed on this special highway.
Now,
what else can we learn
about this special highway?
Today, you don’t know who is traveling
in the car next to yours.
It could be somebody
who has no business driving a car.
The driver could be drunk.
He could be on drugs.
But on this highway,
the unclean one is not permitted.
Those who would break God’s laws
are not permitted to travel on that highway.
Well, we’re talking about the highway
between Babylon and Jerusalem.
And no doubt unclean ones among the Jews
wouldn’t be interested
in going back to Israel anyway.
They were probably very much at home
with the idolatry of Babylon.
Remember, their forefathers
were no strangers to idolatry.
So only those who were
clean and acceptable in Jehovah’s eyes
were welcome to travel
from Babylon back to Jerusalem.
Now, let’s be clear.
We don’t know whether
there was any literal roadwork
done on the road between Babylon and Israel.
It may be all figurative, but there
could have been some roadwork done.
Notice what Jehovah told the Jews to do
in Jeremiah 31:21.
And you would ask,
‘Why would Jehovah
say all of these things
if it was all to be ignored literally?’
At Jeremiah 31:21,
he says:
“Set up road markers for yourself,
“and put up signposts.
“Pay attention to the highway,
the way that you have to go.
“Return, O virgin of Israel,
return to these cities of yours.”
So no doubt the first groups to use the road
would remove obstacles
and level things out the best they could
so that those who followed
would have an easier journey.
So, now, what have we learned?
What have we gleaned
from this series of scriptures?
First, there was a highway,
a highway through the desert.
We’ve also learned
that it was to be cleared of obstacles.
It has a special name,
“the Way of Holiness.”
And there were to be signposts
so that those who traveled the road
wouldn’t get lost
and maybe stray onto some other road.
Now, what was the goal?
Why did Jehovah want this road
to be prepared so nicely?
To make it as easy as possible
for the Jews to leave Babylon
and go back to Israel
and reestablish pure worship.
Did it work?
Tens of thousands of men, women,
and children responded
to the call (the invitation)
and with Jehovah’s help,
they arrived safely at their destination.
Well, you might be thinking:
‘This is all very nice.
‘But what does it have to do with me?
What does it have to do with us today?’
Plenty.
Because today, not tens of thousands
but millions of men, women, and children
are responding to the command,
the urgent command to “get out of her,”
get out of “Babylon the Great.”
And the situation
is different from the situation
of the Jews in ancient times
because they had a choice.
They could remain
in Babylon and still serve Jehovah.
But people today have no choice.
They must leave Babylon the Great.
Their life depends on it.
Now, without looking for a type and antitype,
trying to fit everything
in very neatly in this arrangement,
we can say that there are some similarities
between what happened
to the Jews in ancient times
and what is happening today,
because in a sense, when you start
to study the Bible with someone,
you are pointing him
in the direction of “the Way of Holiness.”
Now, some start studying,
and they start traveling on the road,
and then they turn back.
But others keep going,
and they become dedicated,
baptized disciples of Christ.
Some travel in the fast lane.
They make rapid progress.
Others sort of take the far right lane,
and they poke along,
but they keep making progress.
And as long as they keep making progress,
we’ll study with them.
Some break down,
and that calls for roadside assistance.
But it’s easier to travel
on “the Way of Holiness” today
than it ever has been.
And, friends,
this is partly due to the spiritual site work
that was started centuries ago.
I’m going to repeat that.
It is easier to travel
‘the highway of holiness’ today
because of the spiritual site work
that was started hundreds of years ago,
long before Babylon the Great fell,
long before the road
was opened for travelers.
Now, picture this: It’s the 16th century.
With shovel in hand,
you are about to start site work
on “the Way of Holiness.”
There is a mountain ahead of you
—a mountain of ignorance.
And you realize that if you
are going to start to level that mountain,
the first thing you’re
going to have to do is get the Bible
into the hands of the people.
For years, the Bible was just only in Latin,
and only mostly educated people
could read it.
And even some of the clergy
only knew enough Latin
to conduct church services;
but otherwise, they couldn’t understand it.
Well, if you’ve been to our beautiful museum
(some of you have taken a tour recently),
you know that translators
in many countries risked their freedom
and even their lives to put the Bible
into the language of the common people.
And then printers
produced those translations.
And some of them used an assumed name,
because if they got caught printing a Bible,
they could be arrested and even worse.
So the mountain had to be leveled
a shovelful at a time
—one Bible at a time—
to reduce that mountain
on “the Way of Holiness.”
To get the Bible
into the hands of the people,
William Tyndale
arranged to have thousands of copies
of his translation smuggled into England
in bales of cotton and other goods.
This was dangerous.
Tyndale’s translation was banned in England,
and if you merely possessed
a copy of the Bible,
that could bring you a stint
in the Tower of London or worse.
But despite desperate attempts
to stop work on “the Way of Holiness,”
more copies of Tyndale’s Bible were printed
than the clergy could ever destroy.
By the way, you’d be interested
in a comment that Tyndale made
in his comments on the book of Genesis
(the 1530 translation
of the book of Genesis).
He wrote: “Jehovah is God’s name.
“Neither is any creature so called.
“As oft as thou
seist LORD in capital letters,
it is in Hebrew Jehovah.”
Early on, the name Jehovah
was given some recognition.
Well, with the Bible becoming
more available to the people,
you’d expect that students of the Bible
would want to share
their research with others.
And that was the case.
In the years leading up to 1919
when Babylon the Great fell,
more roadwork was done.
And so we had men
who shared the fruitage of their research
in tracts, in books
—publications of all kinds—
because they wanted the people to know.
They wanted to reduce
that mountain of ignorance.
For example,
about 1835,
a Bible student by the name of Henry Grew
wrote a pamphlet
on the immortality of the soul.
And in that pamphlet,
Grew explained from the Bible
that immortality
is a reward for faithfulness.
We’re not born with it.
Now, he published the tract anonymously
because he knew there would be trouble.
And later on,
there was trouble for Henry Grew.
Well, he publishes a tract.
But two years later,
another Bible student, George Storrs,
is riding in a train,
and he looks down and he sees a tract there,
and it’s Henry Grew’s tract
on the immortality of the soul.
He reads it.
And he becomes convinced that man
doesn’t have an immortal soul.
So, what does he do?
He picks up a shovel,
and he starts working on the road,
the road “the Way of Holiness.”
In 1842, he gave a series of lectures
on the intriguing theme
“Are the Wicked Immortal?”
And he later published those lectures.
Do you know how many copies were produced?
Two hundred thousand copies
of that series of lectures.
So that was decent roadwork
on that “Way of Holiness.”
Well, Storrs knew that he didn’t have
the whole truth on every subject.
And in 1847,
he made quite an interesting statement;
it would be interesting for us.
He says: “We . . . do well to remember
“that we have just emerged
from the dark ages of the church;
“and [notice this]
it would not be . . . strange
“if we should find some ‘Babylonish garments’
still worn by us.”
Well, he was right.
Babylon still had influence in those days.
Well, we know
that George Storrs had an influence
on Charles Taze Russell.
Now, what do we know
about Brother Russell and his associates?
They weren’t the first
to discover that the Trinity
and the immortality of the soul
are false doctrines,
or even that Christ’s presence
would be invisible to the human eye.
They benefited
from the careful preparatory work
that other road workers had done in the past.
So translators, printers,
and Bible students
were doing spiritual site work.
And we might say
that Brother Russell and his associates
put the final touches
on that “Way of Holiness.”
Well, Babylon the Great fell in 1919,
and then “the Way of Holiness”
was open for travelers.
But Brother Russell died in 1916.
Did he miss it?
Did he miss the inauguration of the road?
I don’t think so.
He didn’t have a bird’s-eye view
of the opening of the road;
he had a heaven’s-eye view,
because Brother Russell and his associates
who had finished their earthly course
were able to look down from the heavens.
And can you imagine how excited they were
when they saw the first travelers
set foot on “the Way of Holiness”?
It must have been
very exciting for them indeed.
And it wouldn’t be surprising
if Brother Russell and his associates
were firmly involved
in the maintenance program
of that “Way of Holiness” today,
because every good road
needs ongoing maintenance.
“The Way of Holiness” is open,
but maintenance
on that “Way of Holiness” goes on.
And what’s the goal?
It’s to make it as easy as possible
for people to identify Babylon the Great
and to leave Babylon the Great
—that is the goal.
Well, take the Bible, for example.
There were Bible translations in 1919,
but some of them were
in archaic language
that was hard to understand.
And most of them didn’t give the divine name
the place of honor that it deserved.
But now we have the New World Translation.
What a blessing that has proved to be!
It’s so clear, and you don’t have
to mortgage the house to buy a copy,
which was probably
the case in the 16th century.
And since 1919,
there has been an abundance of spiritual food
to make it easier
for people to come into the truth.
Now, just think of this:
In 1919, Babylon the Great fell.
But what else happened in 1919?
What provision did Jehovah
make for these people?
“The faithful and discreet slave”
was appointed in that same year.
And the slave didn’t waste any time
to start producing literature
that was going to make it easier
for people to come into the truth.
In 1919, the slave is appointed.
By 1921, you have a brand new publication,
The Harp of God.
And it was especially designed for beginners
and to make it easy for people to study
and read and come into the truth.
And that was necessary because in 1921
there was a shortage
of teachers, or publishers,
who could conduct Bible studies with people.
So you really needed something simple.
And comparatively speaking,
that Harp of God  was simple.
Now, there were very few publishers
in those days, just a few thousand.
But they were workers;
they did a tremendous job!
Do you realize that before The Harp of God
went out of print,
almost six million copies
in 22 languages had been circulated?
So this is evidence
that maintenance work
on “the Way of Holiness”
had begun right after the road opened.
Well, I doubt that very many in this audience
have come into the truth
through The Harp of God.
Anybody here?
I don’t think so.
What publication brought you into the truth?
What publication helped you
to identify “the Way of Holiness”?
Was it “The Truth Shall Make You Free,”
“Let God Be True,”
The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life,
You Can Live Forever,
the Knowledge book, Enjoy Life Forever!,
Teach Us (What Can the Bible Teach Us? ),
or is it our fine,
new publication Enjoy Life Forever!?
All of these publications
have been used to help people
to break free from Babylon the Great.
And this is proof positive
that maintenance
on “the Way of Holiness” is ongoing.
This roadwork continues,
and it gets better and better.
Are you studying the Bible with someone
with the help of Enjoy Life Forever! ?
If you are, you’re pointing
that person to “the Way of Holiness.”
So don’t be afraid to offer studies,
as Brother Sanderson mentioned,
to business associates, relatives,
schoolmates—anybody you can think of.
Offer Bible studies,
and you’ll be surprised
at who will take you up on it.
And as you do, keep in mind
that while the road
has been made easier for travelers,
setting foot on that road
takes courage and effort.
So let’s be ready to help
those who are willing to respond.
Millions have already taken that road,
and it’s our hope
that millions more will do so
before the end of this system of things.
And we wish them all safe travels.
Well, we sincerely thank you, Brother Splane,
for that fascinating discussion
about “the Way of Holiness.”
You know, I once had the opportunity
to go to an auction house
and actually hold in my hands
the Tyndale Pentateuch of 1530
of which there are
only a very few known copies.
But sadly,
I didn’t have $650,000
in my wallet on that day
or a house to mortgage,
so we had to pass.
But in our museum, we do have a facsimile.
And won’t it be a wonderful day
when we can reopen our museums
to tours for all of our brothers outside
and they’ll be able to come back
and see those wonderful things?
Thank you so much, Brother Splane.
Well, now we have the pleasure to hear
from another member of our Governing Body,
Brother Geoffrey Jackson.
He has a very intriguing theme:
“Are You There?”
Are you there?
Is your name there?
Is your name “written in the book of life”?
What “book of life”?
Well, in Malachi chapter 3,
we notice that it refers
to “a book of remembrance.”
And this book has a record of all those
‘who fear Jehovah and treasure his name.’
Yes, this “book of remembrance”
is a record of all those
who are in line to receive everlasting life.
So all of us want to have our names
written in that book, don’t we?
But if we do have our name in that book,
does that mean that we
automatically will receive everlasting life?
No.
We remember what Jehovah said to Moses,
as recorded in Exodus chapter 32.
There he said: ‘Anyone who sins against me,
I will wipe out from my book.’
So names can be erased
from this book of life.
It’s as if our names are written
in this book of life
in pencil.
So all of us surely want to make sure
that our names remain in this book of life
right through to the time
that they are written permanently in the book
in pen, as it were.
But whose names are in this book of life?
We’re going to consider together
five different groups of persons,
some of whom have their names
in the book of life and others who don’t.
So let’s watch this presentation
that discusses these five groups.
The first group:
Those who have been selected
to rule with Jesus in heaven.
Are their names written in this book of life?
According to Philippians 4:3,
the answer is yes.
But even though they’ve been anointed
with holy spirit,
they still need to remain faithful
in order to have their names
written permanently in this book.
The second group:
the great crowd of Armageddon survivors.
Are the names of these faithful ones
now written in the book of life?
Yes.
What about after they survive Armageddon?
Will their names still be
in the book of life?
Yes.
How do we know?
At Matthew 25:46, Jesus says
that these sheeplike ones depart
“into everlasting life.”
But does that mean they are granted
everlasting life
at the beginning of the Thousand Year Reign?
No.
Revelation 7:17 tells us
that Jesus “will guide them
to springs of waters of life.”
So they don’t immediately receive
everlasting life.
However, their names are written
in the book of life
in pencil, as it were.
The third group:
the goats who will be destroyed
at Armageddon.
Their names are not in the book of life.
2 Thessalonians 1:9 tells us:
“These very ones will undergo
the judicial punishment
of everlasting destruction.”
The same could be said of those
who have deliberately sinned
against the holy spirit.
They too receive everlasting destruction,
not everlasting life.
So the first three groups are
the anointed,
the great crowd,
and the goats.
Of these three,
only two are found in the book of life.
Now let’s talk about two more groups:
Those who will be resurrected
in the new world.
First, though, let’s read together
Acts 24:15.
There the apostle Paul says:
“I have hope toward God,
“which hope these men also look forward to,
“that there is going to be a resurrection
“of both the righteous
and the unrighteous.”
So the fourth group are
the righteous who have died.
These include some of our loved ones.
Are their names written in the book of life?
Yes.
Revelation 17:8 tells us
that this book has been in existence
since “the founding of the world.”
Jesus referred to Abel as living
“from the founding of the world,”
so we can assume that his name
was the first name written in that book.
Since that time,
millions of other righteous ones
have had their names added to this book.
Now, here’s an important question:
When these righteous ones died,
were their names
taken out of the book of life?
No.
They’re still living in Jehovah’s memory.
Remember, Jesus said that Jehovah
“is a God, not of the dead,
but of the living,
for they are all living to him.”
The righteous will be restored to life
here on earth
with their names still written
in the book of life.
They did good things before they died.
So that is why they will be part
of the resurrection of the righteous ones.
No doubt some of them
will receive privileges,
such as serving
“as princes in all the earth.”
Finally, let’s talk about the resurrection
of “the unrighteous.”
For the most part, the unrighteous
didn’t have an opportunity
to develop a relationship with Jehovah.
They did not live righteous lives.
So that’s why they are called unrighteous.
When these unrighteous ones are resurrected,
are their names written in the book of life?
No.
But their being resurrected
gives them an opportunity
to have their names eventually written
in the book of life.
These unrighteous ones
will need a lot of help.
In their former life, some of them practiced
horrible, vile things.
So they’ll need to learn
to live by Jehovah’s standards.
To accomplish this,
God’s Kingdom will sponsor
the greatest educational program
in all human history.
Who will teach these unrighteous persons?
Those who have their names written
in pencil in the book of life
—the great crowd
and the resurrected righteous ones.
How can these unrighteous ones
have their names written in the book of life?
They will need to develop
a relationship with Jehovah
and dedicate their lives to him.
But will all the unrighteous
accept that opportunity?
No.
Remember, all these unrighteous ones
will be under the careful watch of Jesus
and his fellow judges.
Isaiah 65:20 tells us
that those who refuse to accept this help
will be removed.
No one will be allowed to cause
any ruin in the new world.
So any who display a wicked attitude
during the thousand years
will be removed.
With all these facts in mind then,
let’s now read together
John 5:28, 29.
Jesus said: “Do not be amazed at this,
“for the hour is coming
in which all those in the memorial tombs
“will hear his voice and come out,
“those who did good things
“to a resurrection of life,
“and those who practiced vile things
to a resurrection of judgment.”
Now, for a few moments,
let’s think about those verses
at John 5:28, 29.
Up to now, we have understood
Jesus’ words to mean
that the resurrected ones
will do “good things”
and that some will do “vile things”
after their resurrection.
But notice there in verse 29,
Jesus didn’t say
that they will  do these good things
or they will  practice vile things.
He used the past tense, didn’t he?
Because he said that they “did good things”
and that they “practiced vile things.”
So this would indicate to us
that these deeds, or actions,
were committed by these ones
prior to their death
and before they would be resurrected.
So that makes sense
—doesn’t it?—
because no one is going to be allowed
to practice vile things in the new world.
So, what did Jesus mean when he mentioned
these two factors?
Well, for a start, we could say
that the righteous ones still
—when they’re resurrected—
have their names written in the book of life.
It’s true that Romans 6:7 says
that when someone dies,
his sins are canceled
but (take note of this)
not their record of faithfulness.
That’s not canceled.
So the righteous ones are resurrected
into the new world,
and their names are still
in the book of life.
Of course, they need to remain faithful
during the thousand years
to keep their names in that book of life.
But what about the unrighteous ones?
Well, these are the ones who did vile things
before they died.
So when they are resurrected,
they don’t have their names
in the book of life.
It’s not a resurrection to life;
it’s a resurrection to judgment.
Now, why do we say that?
Because there we could say
that the word “judgment”
is not referring to a condemnation.
It’s not referring to something
that is totally negative.
It’s true that at times the word “judgment”
can have that meaning.
But in the context of these verses,
it seems that Jesus
is using the word “judgment”
in a more neutral sense.
So it means more of an evaluation
or a probation period.
So the unrighteous ones
will have an opportunity to accept
this wonderful educational work
that’s going to be done in the new world.
And during that time, they will be evaluated.
And if they dedicate their lives to Jehovah,
then their names will be written
into the book of life.
Now at this point, you’re probably thinking,
‘Hmm, is this an adjustment
to our understanding?’
Yes, it is.
So now you’re thinking,
‘Now, can you just run that past me again?’
Well, let’s look at this little summary
that will help us.
When Jesus spoke at John 5:29
of those who would receive
a resurrection of life,
he was referring to those
who did good things
before they died
—those whose names are written
in the book of life.
The resurrection of judgment
at John 5:29
involves the resurrection of those
who practice vile things
before they die
and whose names are not yet written
in the book of life.
But whether previously righteous
or unrighteous,
all these resurrected ones will need to obey
the laws in the new scrolls
referred to at Revelation 20:12.
There it says: “I saw the dead,
“the great and the small,
standing before the throne,
“and scrolls were opened.
“But another scroll was opened;
“it is the scroll of life.
“The dead were judged out of those things
written in the scrolls
according to their deeds.”
Yes, they will be judged individually
“according to their deeds.”
But what deeds?
Will it be their deeds committed
before they die?
No.
Otherwise, the resurrection
of the unrighteous
would have been a pointless waste.
Here, then, their deeds
cannot be deeds from their former life.
Rather, this verse must refer to their deeds
in response to their training
in the new world.
Even such faithful men
as Noah, Samuel, David, and Daniel
will have to learn
about the sacrifice of Christ
and exercise faith in it.
All of this also helps us to understand
an amazing prophecy in the book of Daniel.
Let’s turn there.
It’s Daniel 12:1-3.
There it says: “During that time
“Michael [who is Jesus Christ]
“will stand up [that is, at Armageddon],
“the great prince who is standing
“[since 1914]
“in behalf of your people.
“And there will occur a time of distress
“[that is, the great tribulation]
“such as has not occurred
“since there came to be a nation
until that time.
“And during that time
your people will escape,
“everyone who is found
written down in the book
[and this refers to the great crowd].”
But notice what follows:
“And many of those asleep
in the dust of the earth will wake up,
“some to everlasting life
and others to reproach
and to everlasting contempt.”
So looking at Daniel 12:2,
it seems appropriate, too, that we adjust
our understanding of this verse.
Notice that there it speaks
about people waking up
in the form of a resurrection,
and this occurs
after what’s mentioned in verse 1
—after the great crowd survives
the great tribulation.
So this obviously is talking
about a literal resurrection
of the righteous and unrighteous.
But what does it mean
when it mentions there, in verse 2,
that some will be raised to everlasting life
and others to everlasting contempt?
What does that really mean?
Well, when we notice that,
we notice that this is a little different
from what Jesus said in John chapter 5
when he spoke about life and judgment.
But now, here he is talking
about everlasting  life
and everlasting  contempt.
So that term “everlasting”
helps us to realize
that this is talking about the final outcome,
after these ones have had an opportunity
to accept the education.
So those who are resurrected
who make good use
of this education,
well, they will continue on
and ultimately receive
everlasting life.
But then on the other hand,
any who refuse to accept
the benefits of that education
will be judged
as worthy of eternal destruction.
Now let’s finally read verse 3:
“And those having insight
“will shine as brightly
as the expanse of heaven,
“and those bringing the many to righteousness
like the stars, forever and ever.”
This is speaking
about the massive educational work
that will be done in the new world.
The glorified anointed ones
will shine brightly
as they work closely with Jesus
to direct the education work
that will bring the many to righteousness.
What a joy it will be for them to take part
in this amazing work
in their role as priests.
They will assist
with “the healing of the nations.”
And what a privilege it will be
to see obedient humans
become free from the burden of sin and death
and gain perfection!
Of course, we have to realize
that at that time on earth,
there won’t be
just the resurrected ones, will there?
There will be the survivors of Armageddon
and any children that are born
in the new world.
These ones will ultimately attain
to perfection.
So is that when they get their names written,
as it were, in ink in the book?
Not quite yet.
Why not?
Well, because perfection
doesn’t automatically mean
that someone would get everlasting life.
Remember the case of Adam and Eve:
They were perfect.
But before they could attain
to everlasting life,
they had to prove their obedience to Jehovah.
Yes.
So we realize, then,
that in the case of Adam and Eve,
they failed.
So questions are raised
with regard to all these perfect ones
on the earth at that time
(the resurrected ones,
the survivors of the great tribulation,
as well as any children
that will have been born):
Will they stand faithful?
Will they continue to support
Jehovah’s sovereignty?
Or will some of them be like Adam and Eve
—be perfect but then unfaithful?
Well, the book of Revelation
helps us to understand
that to answer that question
Satan is released from the symbolic prison,
and he has an opportunity
to test the integrity of Jehovah’s servants.
So each person on earth
will have a personal opportunity
to show where they stand
on the issue of universal sovereignty.
And their individual response
will show whether or not their names
should be written permanently
in the book of life.
Some, an unspecified number,
will turn their backs on Jehovah
and will not support his sovereignty.
What will happen to those ones?
Well, Revelation 20:15 tells us, doesn’t it?
Anyone who isn’t “found written
in the book of life”
will receive everlasting destruction.
But this is the good news:
The majority of perfect mankind
will find themselves passing the final test.
Yes, and their names
will be written permanently
in the book of life.
Isn’t it exciting to think
about what’s going to happen in the future?
Yes, now is the time
that Jehovah is preparing his people
for this massive educational work
that is going to take place in the new world.
So now is the time for each one of us
to think about that question:
Are you there?
Is your name in the book of life?
Yes, may your name be found written
in Jehovah’s book of life,
and may it remain there forever!
Well, we sincerely thank you,
Brother Jackson,
for that very upbuilding
and strengthening talk.
I have to say that when the Governing Body
discussed that information,
all of us felt that it was so heartwarming
to think of the time
when the anointed will really be able
to work with people on the earth
and help them come to perfection.
What a wonderful, wonderful moment
that will be!
Well, now we’re primed
for an interesting discussion presented
by another member of the Governing Body,
Brother Kenneth Cook.
His theme is
“Are You Heeding the Warnings?”
We live in a time
that will end in final judgment
by means of God’s Kingdom.
Jesus described this time
when he gave his disciples a prophetic sign
regarding his invisible presence
at “the conclusion of the system of things.”
Since his prophecy applies to our day,
we should be very interested in its details.
It also points to a bright future
for those who heed its warnings.
We find the prophecy
in Matthew chapters 24 and 25,
Mark chapter 13,
and Luke chapter 21.
After revealing many of the things
that would occur, Jesus provided warnings
for his disciples by means of three parables.
First, he gave the parable of the virgins,
then the parable of the talents,
and finally the parable
of the sheep and the goats.
The parables show how a person’s behavior
will affect his or her final judgment.
The two parables apply to those
(the first two) with the heavenly hope,
and the third parable applies
to those with an earthly hope.
Yet no matter what our hope may be,
all of us can learn from the warnings
found in Jesus’ parables.
Let’s start with the third parable.
In the parable of the sheep and the goats,
Jesus described the final judgment
for sheeplike ones and goatlike ones
during the great tribulation.
As Jehovah’s appointed Judge and King,
Jesus will be completely righteous
in the judgment that he gives.
As a thorough Judge,
he is already observing
the actions, attitudes,
and speech of all people,
including how they treat
his anointed brothers.
By the start of the great tribulation,
Jesus will have identified those
who are sheeplike or goatlike
in their conduct and attitude.
From that time onward,
those who are goatlike
will not seek to change.
However, those who are sheeplike
and who have the hope
of living forever on earth
will need to remain faithful
in order for Jehovah
to keep their names “in the book of life.”
Then, just before Armageddon,
God’s Son will pass final judgment
on all of those then living here on earth.
Persons who are judged to be righteous
will enter into everlasting life on earth.
What a marvelous reward
for those who keep their integrity!
Although Jesus’ third parable
applies to those
who hope to live on the earth,
anointed ones too must listen
to the warning message found in that parable.
How so?
Because Jesus is observing their actions,
attitudes, and speech as well.
They too must prove
to be righteous and faithful.
Still, a few questions remain.
For example, how are anointed Christians
undergoing a period of judgment today?
And what warnings did Jesus provide for them?
We find the answers to both questions
in the first two parables
of Matthew chapter 25.
To prepare us for this review,
let’s briefly consider
how anointed Christians are chosen.
We’ll start by looking
at a lesson from ancient times.
When the priesthood
was established in ancient Israel,
Jehovah decided
who would serve as high priest
as well as the underpriests
at the tabernacle.
Exodus 28:1 tells us
that he selected
“Aaron, along with his sons.”
No one could rightly question
Jehovah’s choice,
and those chosen
had to prove worthy of their calling.
Similar to what he did back then,
Jehovah chooses those
who will serve as priests in heaven.
He began by selecting Jesus
to serve as High Priest.
Although Jesus was a perfect man,
he did not choose that role for himself.
We read at Hebrews 5:5
that “the Christ did not glorify himself
by becoming a high priest.”
Likewise, those who will serve
as priests in heaven
do not choose themselves for this assignment.
They are selected by Jehovah
and anointed with his holy spirit.
He knows each one
whom he has anointed for this service.
How do faithful anointed ones
view their heavenly calling?
When a person is anointed by God,
he or she knows without a doubt
that it is from Jehovah
and that one accepts
Jehovah’s choice with gratitude.
Instead of feeling proud or haughty,
anointed ones strive
to imitate Jesus’ example of humility.
They’re helped to do so
by keeping in mind
the lessons and warnings
that are found in Jesus’ parables for them.
It’s noteworthy
that just before relating his parables,
Jesus spoke
about a “faithful and discreet slave”
who would distribute spiritual food
at the proper time during the last days.
That slave pictures a small group
of anointed Christian men today,
the Governing Body.
For their faithful service, Jesus said
that there would be a reward,
but he also provided a warning.
He spoke about what would happen
if that slave ever lost sight
of Jesus’ future return
and started to mistreat his fellow slaves.
If that were to happen,
that slave would be viewed as evil and would,
as Matthew 24:51 states,
be ‘punished with the greatest severity.’
Please note that Jesus was not prophesying
that there would be an evil slave.
This is a warning, not a prophecy.
What was the warning?
That the faithful slave
needs to remain watchful.
Yet, it is not just
“the faithful and discreet slave”
who must remain watchful.
By means of his parables, Jesus warned
that all anointed ones must likewise prove
to be discreet, faithful, and watchful.
Now, how did Jesus make his point?
In the parable of the virgins, Jesus spoke
of ten virgins who went out
to meet a bridegroom.
They hoped to accompany
the bridegroom into his marriage feast.
Jesus described five of the virgins
as discreet and five as foolish.
The Greek word used for “discreet”
conveys the idea of understanding,
forethought, discernment, and wisdom
in a practical sense.
So the discreet virgins were wise,
and they showed this by being ready
when the bridegroom arrived
in the middle of the night.
They had lamps to light their way.
And Matthew 25:4 adds
that “the discreet [virgins]
took oil in their flasks
along with their lamps.”
So they had the means
to keep their lamps burning.
Because they proved to be ready,
they could follow the bridegroom
into his marriage feast.
This action depicts genuine anointed ones
entering into their heavenly reward.
They will be judged as worthy
to join the Bridegroom, Jesus,
in his heavenly Kingdom.
But what about the foolish virgins?
Well, unlike the discreet virgins,
the foolish ones were not ready
when the bridegroom arrived.
Their lamps died out.
As a result, they
could not follow the bridegroom
and enter into his marriage feast.
When they later tried to do so,
they heard the bridegroom tell them:
“I do not know you.”
What is the lesson and warning
that Jesus was illustrating?
He was showing that only anointed Christians
who “keep on the watch” and prove to be ready
will follow him into the reward.
Notice, though, that Jesus did not say
that there would be
a large number of foolish ones
who would be unprepared
when he comes in this way
at the great tribulation.
Here, too, this is a warning, not a prophecy.
We’re not focused
on five of them being discreet
and five of them being foolish.
Jesus was simply letting anointed ones know
what would happen
if they failed to “keep on the watch.”
That is a sobering thought.
Whether our hope is heavenly or earthly,
all true Christians
should listen to the warning
found in the parable of the virgins.
We must “keep on the watch”
and always be ready
to carry out our service to God.
Now, after using the parable of the virgins
to emphasize the need to be discreet,
Jesus related a parable
that highlights the need to be faithful.
It is the parable of the talents, or money.
In this parable, Jesus tells about two slaves
who were faithful to their master
and one slave who was not.
How did the two slaves prove to be faithful?
Well, the faithful slaves worked hard
to increase the money
that their master entrusted to their care
just before he traveled abroad.
When he returned, the faithful slaves
had more to give back
than what they had received
and they were blessed for doing so.
But what about the third slave,
the sluggish one?
What did he do with what he had received?
Well, the sluggish slave
buried what he had been given
and failed to increase his master’s talents.
When the master returned,
that slave had nothing additional
to give to his master.
He even tried to blame the master,
calling him “a demanding man.”
As a result, that slave
did not receive greater blessings.
More than that, what he had been given
was taken away from him,
and he was cast out
of the master’s household.
What did the master’s response mean
for each of his slaves,
and whom do they picture today?
The two faithful slaves
depict anointed Christians
who proved to be valued members
of the master’s household.
The Master, Jesus, invites them
to “enter into the joy of [their] master.”
That joy pictures their heavenly reward.
On the other hand,
the bad example of the sluggish slave
provides a warning for anointed ones.
How so?
If anointed ones
do not remain alert and watchful,
they could become self-satisfied
with what they have received.
They might not extend themselves
in Kingdom service.
They could lose sight
of their responsibilities
and fail to do as 2 Peter 1:10 urges,
where they are told “to make the calling
and choosing sure for themselves.”
If any of them
become like the sluggish slave,
they would not be approved
to enter into the heavenly Kingdom
and share in the joy of the Master.
Once again,
Jesus was providing
a warning, not a prophecy.
Clearly, all anointed Christians
must strive to be both discreet and faithful.
Whether our hope is heavenly or earthly,
all true Christians are determined
to remain faithful to Jehovah.
We are secure in our relationship with him.
We’re not concerned if Jehovah
chooses to anoint
some faithful ones in more recent years.
We recall what Jesus said
regarding the “11th-hour” workers
in his illustration about the vineyard.
You can read about it in Matthew chapter 20.
Those who were invited
to work in the vineyard later in the day
received the same reward
from the master of the vineyard
as those who were invited
to work in it earlier in the day.
Likewise, Jehovah and his Son
know how many anointed ones to call
in order to complete
the number of 144,000
before the end comes.
But no matter when they are selected,
each anointed one
who is judged to be faithful
will receive their heavenly reward.
Now with that in mind, let’s consider
Matthew 24:40, 41.
And as we do, we’ll see how these verses
connect to Jesus’ parables for the anointed.
At Matthew 24:40, it reads:
“Then two men will be in the field;
“one will be taken along
and the other abandoned.
“Two women will be grinding at the hand mill;
one will be taken along
and the other abandoned.”
Did you notice
some similarities to the parables?
Jesus spoke of two men working in a field
and of two women working at a hand mill.
Outwardly, they appear to be the same.
But in each case, Jesus said
that “one [would] be taken along
and the other abandoned.”
He then urged his followers
to “keep on the watch, therefore,
because you do not know
on what day your Lord is coming.”
Jesus said something very similar
after relating the parable of the virgins.
In both examples, he provided a warning.
Since the parable of the virgins
applies to anointed Christians,
do Jesus’ comments
about those who are taken along
also apply to the anointed?
It appears that they do.
And here again,
Jesus was providing a warning.
In his great prophecy regarding
“the conclusion of the system of things,”
we find that Jesus lovingly highlights
both the good news of the Kingdom,
as well as warning messages for all people,
including his followers.
Down to this day,
our message follows the same pattern.
It is both one of salvation
as well as one of warning.
And we must continue to do all that we can
to deliver Jesus’ twofold message
and help others to act on it
while there is still time.
Clearly, Jehovah and his Son want us
to remain discreet,
faithful, and on the watch.
So, what have we considered?
Some of the virgins in Jesus’ illustration
found out that the door was shut,
and they heard the bridegroom tell them:
“I do not know you.”
One of the slaves
in Jesus’ illustration of the talents
did not enter into his master’s joy
but was thrown outside into the darkness.
Jesus also indicated
that not all would be taken along
into the heavenly reward.
What a serious warning
for those who have the heavenly hope!
Even so, we are confident
that the full number of them will be filled.
Truly, this is a time of judgment
for all of God’s people,
including the righteous sheep
who yearn to live forever on earth.
But there is no reason for any of us
to fear the final judgment that is yet ahead.
Our loving heavenly Father
promises to give us
“power beyond what is normal” so that we may,
as Luke 21:36 says,
“succeed in . . .
standing before the Son of man.”
So then, whether our hope
is heavenly or earthly,
we must heed the warnings
found in Jesus’ parables
and thereby keep our names
“written in the book of life.”
We thank you so much, Brother Cook,
for that excellent review of warnings
that we need to keep in our minds.
Well, did you capture all of the fine points
of those three talks?
We’re now going to pass out
the exam sheets.
No, just kidding.
But if you would like to review
those talks carefully,
and we know you will,
guess what?
They’re going to be presented
to the worldwide brotherhood
in the January monthly edition
of JW Broadcasting.
So you all will have the opportunity
to carefully review your notes
to make sure you got all the fine points
in those wonderful, wonderful talks.
Well, the Governing Body
has asked that a brief update
about the construction
of the Ramapo headquarters facility
be shared with you at this time.
Now, despite the pandemic,
we have clearly seen Jehovah’s hand
on the Ramapo project this year,
so please enjoy the following visual update.
Before the main project begins,
contractors have already
been assisting to repair and strengthen
an existing stone-faced bridge
on the road into the site.
When completed,
the restoration of this structure
will serve as a beautiful feature
of the property.
More important,
Jehovah has greatly blessed the efforts
to work through the planning process
with the town of Ramapo.
That process is now
in the final stages of obtaining
the necessary permits to start the large,
new construction project.
In the first quarter of 2022,
Jehovah willing,
contractors will start clearing the site
in preparation for earth-moving
and installation of underground utilities
and for readying the locations
where the first buildings
will be constructed.
This in itself will take many months,
and we look to Jehovah to bless
this key phase that, when concluded,
will open up the project
for many volunteers
to come and share in the work.
Much forethought and work has gone
into the arrangements needed for feeding,
housing, and providing
temporary office spaces
for all such willing brothers and sisters.
The design team is fully engaged
in preparing the construction documents.
The drawings for some buildings
are well-advanced;
others are in the concept stage.
No doubt, seeing these concept images
of the future Ramapo facility
is exciting and encouraging to all of you.
Well, with all of you,
we continue to pray that Jehovah will bless
this very exciting theocratic project.
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic,
we have felt Jehovah’s loving care
as we’ve received helpful direction
just at the right time.
Please listen and watch
as those who work
in the Coordinators’ Committee Office
recount how events unfolded
with the pandemic
and how Jehovah has guided matters
throughout this time.
In January of 2020,
we started seeing news reports
about a disease outbreak in Wuhan, China.
Now at the time, it seemed localized
and was not of global concern.
But a short time later,
the numbers were going up
as the virus began to spread.
Borders were closing,
and airports were shutting down.
On January 22, the Coordinators’ Committee
received their first letter from a branch
about the coronavirus.
The letter was from the Korea branch.
Soon after that,
we wrote to all branches in and around Asia
and included guidelines on what to do
if they had an outbreak in their territory.
We had dealt with local epidemics before
but nothing like this on a worldwide scale.
It was clear that the virus
was going to affect almost every aspect
of our theocratic operations.
And during those first few months of 2020,
the organization would be faced
with a huge amount of decisions.
You have to realize that this was catching us
right in the middle of our activities.
Our schedule for the whole year
had already been planned.
We had shepherding visits to branches,
regional conventions,
even special conventions.
And now we had Gilead graduation
and Memorial coming up right in front of us.
What were we going to do?
One of the first things
the Governing Body decided
was that the Coordinators’ Committee
would become the central channel
of communication regarding COVID-19.
Meanwhile, the graduation
of the 148th class of Gilead
was in two weeks.
Should we have guests come?
Should there be a live audience?
There was not much time
to make these decisions.
However, after prayer and discussion,
the entire Governing Body decided
not to have a live audience
for the Gilead graduation that weekend.
That was unheard of!
The next thing we needed to figure out
was whether to lock down
headquarters at Bethel.
I clearly remember it was a Friday night,
March 13.
We were getting reports of COVID cases
in the congregations around Bethel.
And we also knew that the Bethelites
would be going out to their congregation
and other activities over the weekend.
If we were going to do something,
we needed to do it quickly.
We called each member of the Governing Body
and explained the situation.
And all were unanimous
that we should lock down Bethel immediately.
So within the hour, a message went
to the entire headquarters
and United States Bethel family to stay in,
and if you were out,
to return to Bethel immediately.
Sometime later,
we learned that there were
some COVID cases at Patterson.
If we had moved ahead,
potentially we could have spread COVID
through the whole Bethel family!
We really felt Jehovah’s protective hand.
The same weekend as the Gilead graduation,
the Memorial invitation campaign
was scheduled to begin.
And so branches were asking:
Is it safe to go door to door
and to distribute invitations?
What if we can’t meet at our Kingdom Halls?
As the virus had spread in many countries,
it became evident
that we needed to suspend
the public ministry.
This was a very serious decision.
But when we prayerfully analyzed
the situation,
we realized we would not be showing respect
for the sanctity of life or love of neighbor
if we continued house to house.
Our preaching work shifted to letter writing
and telephone witnessing.
And what a huge witness
has been given in this way!
It was amazing to me personally
when I saw how quickly
the brothers could adapt to using
Zoom, phone witnessing, letter writing.
And instead of it being
a huge setback for the work,
it was almost as though
the work even moved ahead.
We were also having to deal
with what to do about our Kingdom Halls
and our meetings.
Initially, some of the brothers
were thinking,
‘Maybe we could just simply watch
the prerecorded meetings
on JW Stream ®.’
Well, while that’s an excellent provision,
if we were going to do this for a long time,
it would be wonderful to use a tool
that would allow the brothers and sisters
to come together virtually,
to be able to interact and have
that “interchange of encouragement.”
We knew that a few branches
had already started using Zoom
for congregation meetings,
and we wondered, ‘Could this tool be used
for congregation meetings globally?’
So we asked those branches
for their recommendations
on how we could use this tool further.
We got their comments, we did some testing,
and then the Governing Body approved
the global use of Zoom  for meetings.
At the same time, though,
the Coordinators’ Committee urgently wanted
to help those congregations to arrange
dignified Zoom  meetings.
And so within a week,
technical and theocratic guidelines
were released to all congregations.
And shortly after that,
tens of thousands of Zoom  licenses
were purchased
and then provided to many congregations
as part of the disaster relief arrangement.
However, not all publishers
could use Zoom  because of lack of Internet.
So in the days leading up to the campaign,
the Governing Body provided direction
to all branches
on how to handle those exact situations.
They also announced
that the Memorial talk itself
would be made available on jw.org.
So one branch wrote in
and asked if they could use
television and radio broadcasting.
And we thought: ‘That’s a good idea.
Let’s try it.’
Once we saw
how well it worked in that country,
television and radio were approved
for all branches in Africa
only two days before the Memorial.
How thrilling it was
for many friends in Africa
to find out, even moments
before the broadcast began,
that they would be able
to commemorate the Memorial
simultaneously with their brothers
and sisters throughout the country!
To have the Memorial
without being able to meet together
was so different for all of us.
Can you imagine that for the 2021 Memorial
there was an all-time peak
of 21,367,603?
Clearly, we have seen Jehovah’s blessing
on these arrangements.
While all these new arrangements
were being made at a rapid pace,
the usual work
of the Coordinators’ Committee Office
didn’t stop because of the pandemic.
We still had to deal
with the king of the north
persecuting our brothers.
We still had disasters
and many other things to contend with.
In fact, we handled twice as many disasters
in the 2020 service year
in the middle of the pandemic
than we did in 2018.
On a daily basis, we saw clear evidence
that we are living in the last days.
We had to come up with guidelines
to help branches determine
what aspects of relief work
could be postponed
and at the same time ensure that urgent
or necessary work went ahead safely.
While there’s no doubt that the pandemic
complicated disaster relief efforts
considerably,
it was so faith-strengthening to see
that the Governing Body refused
to allow those complications
to prevent them from caring for our brothers.
In addition to the impact
these disasters had on our brothers,
in some countries our brothers
couldn’t even get enough food
for their daily needs.
This could have been because of
government restrictions, supply issues,
or other circumstances
that wouldn’t allow the brothers to work.
Literally, the branches had to arrange
to provide their “daily bread.”
Branches were encouraged to establish
disaster relief committees
to care for the needs on a local level.
Reminders were provided to help families
try to prepare a reserve of food,
if at all possible,
in case the situation became worse.
Of course, the virus affected
not only our meetings at the Kingdom Hall
but also our circuit assemblies,
regional conventions,
and special conventions.
So the Governing Body decided to cancel
all live regional and special conventions
for 2020.
That lead to a landmark convention program
on jw.org
that the entire brotherhood enjoyed.
That same week in March,
we approved
that a JW Broadcasting® news release
about the coronavirus outbreak
be developed.
So interviews and scripts were prepared
during that Gilead graduation weekend,
and the program was recorded and released
the following week.
The Governing Body updates
have been an important way for us to shepherd
the entire organization during the pandemic.
Well, once vaccinations
became more prevalent,
we faced another challenge.
The United States branch
was struggling to get vaccines
for those in the Bethel family
who wanted them.
So in early April 2021,
we called together a meeting.
We had all the key individuals there
from the various departments,
and everyone was given an assignment.
And within two weeks, we had enough vaccines
to vaccinate everyone
in the U.S. Bethel family
who chose to be vaccinated.
Well, about a week later,
we sent a letter to all branches,
encouraging them to investigate
the availability of vaccines
for special full-time servants.
We were especially concerned
about special full-time servants
serving in lands where the government
was not yet making vaccines available.
After that direction went out,
we had a tremendous response
from a number of branches
who were able to obtain vaccines
for special full-time servants
who wanted to receive them.
Several branches said
that it had seemed impossible
to get vaccines in their country
at that moment,
but they prayed about it,
they followed the direction,
and then either that same day
or the very next day
Jehovah opened the doors
and suddenly they had the vaccine.
All of these events occurred rapidly,
and even though it was difficult
to make so many adjustments
in such a short period of time,
we could see Jehovah’s hand
in the Governing Body’s decisions.
Television, radio, videoconferencing
have all served our brothers well,
which just goes to show
that Jehovah was guiding the Governing Body
as they made these decisions
so early in the pandemic.
You know, we’ve always appreciated
the direction we receive
from the faithful slave.
But at that unique time especially,
it was so encouraging to see Jehovah use them
to make these major decisions.
And they made many that one week in March.
Although there have been many challenges
and sad times during the pandemic,
it’s been amazing
to see many positive developments.
So many inactive ones have returned.
So many Bible studies have been started.
We saw how Jehovah guided us through
—decision by decision, step-by-step.
And seeing how Jehovah
led us through this situation
has helped me to see that regardless
of what is going to come up in the future,
Jehovah is going to do the same thing.
Like the Scriptures say, we get our plagues.
We have those times.
But overall, when you’re in Jehovah’s arms,
what’s the worry?
You could say that every one
of the Governing Body’s faith
was strengthened
as we got through this trial,
and it’s just a continuous thing
of our faith being built up.
And how Jehovah is directing us!
And he’s preparing his people
for life in that new world
—the real life that’s coming.
It’s been a real privilege
to see Jehovah’s spirit in action
during this pandemic.
It’s strengthened our faith
to see him use the Governing Body
to provide Scripturally based direction
and keep the Kingdom work going,
all the while showing respect for life.
As a result, our trust
in Jehovah’s organization
is stronger than ever before.
And building this trust now is vital
because Jehovah is preparing us
for future events,
including the great tribulation.
Well, we take this opportunity to thank
all of the brothers who work
in the Coordinators’ Committee Office
for the hard work that they put forward
during the pandemic.
It was just amazing to see how many ways
Jehovah has directed matters
during these challenging times.
What an encouraging program!
And that was just the first half.
There’s so much more to enjoy.
We’ll see you here next month
for the rest of the program.
But before we go,
we’d like to meet
our brothers and sisters in the Philippines
in this month’s video postcard.
The Philippines is a tropical country
in the western Pacific Ocean
that’s made up of more than 7,100 islands.
Across those islands,
you’ll find an astonishing diversity
of landscapes
—from pristine beaches
and lush farmlands
to dramatic mountain ranges.
There are also bustling cities,
including the capital, Manila
—one of the most densely populated cities
in the world.
The over 230,000 publishers
living in the Philippines
preach to a population
of more than 109 million people.
In 2021,
739,439
attended the Memorial.
That’s more than three times
the number of publishers.
Let’s travel to the southern part
of the country
to one of the largest islands,
Mindanao.
Here farmers grow staples like corn and rice
along with cacao, pomelo,
and durian
—a popular Asian fruit
famous for its unusual, pungent smell.
The southern tip of Mindanao is home
to the 97 publishers
in the Margus Congregation.
In this remote part of the country,
the pandemic posed some unique challenges.
Because of unreliable Internet service,
the congregation chose
to schedule its meetings on Zoom
at 3:30 a.m.
Why so early?
The Internet signal is more stable
during those early hours of the morning.
The publishers may have missed out
on a few hours of sleep,
but they didn’t miss
any of the spiritual food
being provided through the meetings.
In other areas served by the congregation,
there’s no Internet or cell service at all,
so the brothers listen
to meetings broadcast over radio.
But those challenges
haven’t dampened their zeal,
especially when it comes
to sharing the good news
with the indigenous population.
Since 2019,
the congregation has been hosting
a B’laan-language group.
B’laan is an indigenous language
spoken by about 125,000 people.
The B’laan people
are famous for their handicrafts
and colorful native costumes.
With several publications and videos
now available in B’laan,
native speakers can hear the truth
in their own language.
The 28 brothers and sisters
of the B’laan group
in the Margus Congregation
would like to send you
their warm love and greetings.
And please remember,
dear brothers and sisters,
we love you all very much.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!